# Advanced Coding using JavaScript - Lesson 5.2 - JavaScript - Comparison Operators in JavaScript

### @explicitHints true


## Step 1 @unplugged
**Comparison Operators in JavaScript**

Comparison operators allows us to compare 2 values and determine if the are equal, not equal or if one is greater than or less than the other.

Comparison operators result in a boolean and are typically used in the condition in if then statements or while loops.

There are 6 comparison operators:
- ```==``` (equal to)
- ```!=``` (not equal to)
- ```<``` (Less than)
- ```<=``` (less than or equal to)
- ```>``` (greater than)
- ```>=``` (greater than or equal to)

## Step 2 @unplugged
**```==``` (equal to) operator**

We can use this operator to check 2 variables are the same value and if they are the expression will evaluate to true, if not it will evaluate to false. Note there is no space between the 2 = symbols.

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("collect", function () {
    if (agent.getItemCount(1) == 5) {
        agent.collectAll()
    }
})
```

## Step 3 @unplugged
**```!=``` (not equal to) operator**

We can use this operator to check 2 variables are not the same value and if they are not the same value the expression will evaluate to true, if they are the same it will evaluate to false. Note there is no spacebetween the ! and the =.

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("collect", function () {
    if (agent.getItemCount(1) != 64) {
        agent.collectAll()
    }
})
```

## Step 4 @unplugged
**```<``` (less than) operator**

We can use this operator to check that the value of the 1st variable is less than the 2nd variable. If the value of the 1st variable is less than the second variable it will evaluate to true, if the value of the first variable is equal to or greater than the second variable it will evaluate to false.

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("collect", function () {
    if (agent.getItemCount(1) < 64) {
        agent.collectAll()
    }
})
```

## Step 5 @unplugged
**```<=``` (less than or equal to) operator**

This operator is similar to the less than operator with a small difference - if the value of the 2 variables is the same it will also evaluate to true. Note there is no space between the = and the <.

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("collect", function () {
    if (agent.getItemCount(1) <= 64) {
        agent.collectAll()
    }
})
```
## Step 6 @unplugged
**```>``` (greater than) operator**

We can use this operator to check that the value of the 1st variable is greater than the 2nd variable. If the value of the 1st variable is greater than the second variable it will evaluate to true, if the value of the first variable is equal to or less than the second variable it will evaluate to false.

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("collect", function () {
    if (agent.getItemCount(1) > 0) {
        agent.collectAll()
    }
})
```
## Step 7 @unplugged
**```>=``` (greater than or equal to) operator**

This operator is similar to the greater than operator with a small difference - if the value of the 2 variables is the same it will also evaluate to true. Note there is no space between the > and the =. 

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("collect", function () {
    if (agent.getItemCount(1) >= 0) {
        agent.collectAll()
    }
})
```
## Step 8 @unplugged
**Example**

**JavaScript**
```javascript 
player.onChat("checklives", function () {
    if (gameplay.timeQuery(GAME_TIME) >= 13000) {
        player.say("Its night time!")
    }
})
```

In the above example we have used a comparison operator in an if statement. The comparison operator we are using is the greater than or equal to operator.

In this example the if statements boolean condition is checking if the time of day is on or after 13000 ticks and if so it will say its night time.

## Step 9 @tutorialCompleted
Return to the game and move onto the activity.